README.md, before:

# 🎨 GitHub Profile Overview Clone

A **pixel-perfect replica** of GitHub's profile overview page built with **React + TypeScript + Vite**.

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18.2.0-blue?logo=react)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.2.2-blue?logo=typescript)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-5.0.8-646CFF?logo=vite)

---

## ✨ Features

✅ **Complete GitHub UI Components**
- Header with navigation and search
- Profile sidebar with bio, stats, achievements
- Popular repositories with 2-column grid
- 365-day contribution heatmap with 5 color levels
- Activity overview with percentage charts
- Expandable activity timeline

✅ **Fully Responsive Design**
- Desktop (1280px+)
- Tablet (768px-1024px)
- Mobile (< 768px)

✅ **Pixel-Perfect Styling**
- GitHub's official dark theme colors
- Authentic hover effects and transitions
- SVG icons matching GitHub's design
- Smooth animations

✅ **Developer-Friendly**
- TypeScript throughout
- Component-based architecture
- Clean, maintainable code
- Comprehensive documentation

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Open in browser
# Visit: http://localhost:5173
```

---

## 📸 What's Included

### 1. Header Component
- GitHub logo and top navigation
- Search bar with keyboard shortcut
- User menu with avatar
- Profile tabs (Overview, Repositories, Projects, Packages, Stars)

### 2. Profile Sidebar
- Circular avatar
- User name and bio
- Contact information with icons
- Skills as pill badges
- Followers/following stats
- Achievement badges
- Organization logos

### 3. Popular Repositories
- 6 repository cards in responsive grid
- Language indicators with colors
- Visibility badges (Public/Private)
- Fork indicators
- Hover effects

### 4. Contribution Graph
- 365-day heatmap visualization
- 5-level color intensity
- Month and day labels
- Interactive tooltips
- Contribution count display

### 5. Activity Overview
- Commits vs Pull Requests chart
- Color-coded percentage bars
- Organization mentions

### 6. Contribution Activity
- Monthly timeline
- Expandable/collapsible sections
- Repository lists with counts
- Activity type icons

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── Header/                 # Top navigation
│   ├── ProfileSidebar/         # User info sidebar
│   └── MainContent/
│       ├── PopularRepositories/
│       ├── ContributionGraph/
│       ├── ActivityOverview/
│       └── ContributionActivity/
├── data/                       # Mock data
│   ├── mockProfile.ts
│   ├── mockRepositories.ts
│   ├── mockContributions.ts
│   └── mockActivity.ts
├── types/                      # TypeScript definitions
│   ├── profile.types.ts
│   ├── repository.types.ts
│   ├── contribution.types.ts
│   └── activity.types.ts
├── pages/
│   └── ProfilePage.tsx         # Main page component
└── styles/
    └── variables.css           # CSS variables & design system
```

**Total:** 30+ files, 2,500+ lines of code

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| **React 18** | UI library with hooks |
| **TypeScript** | Type-safe development |
| **Vite** | Fast dev server & build tool |
| **CSS3** | Custom styling with variables |
| **ESLint** | Code quality & linting |

**No external UI libraries** - Pure CSS implementation!

---

## 📱 Responsive Breakpoints

- **Desktop** (1280px+): 2-column layout, full navigation
- **Tablet** (768-1024px): Stacked layout, hamburger menu
- **Mobile** (< 768px): Single column, compact design

---

## 🎨 Design System

All colors and styles use CSS variables from GitHub's official design:

```css
--bg-primary: #0d1117;
--text-primary: #c9d1d9;
--accent-green: #3fb950;
--accent-blue: #58a6ff;
```

See `src/styles/variables.css` for complete design tokens.

---

## 📚 Documentation

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **QUICK_START.md** | Fast setup guide |
| **DESIGN.md** | Original design document |
| **IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md** | Complete feature list |
| **COMPONENT_GUIDE.md** | Component architecture |

---

## 🔧 Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev      # Start development server
npm run build    # Build for production
npm run preview  # Preview production build
npm run lint     # Run ESLint
```

---

## 🌐 API Integration

Currently uses mock data. To integrate with GitHub API:

1. Install SWR or React Query
2. Create API hooks in `src/hooks/`
3. Replace mock imports with API calls

**Example:**
```typescript
// Before
import { mockProfile } from '../data/mockProfile';

// After
const { data: profile } = useProfile(username);
```

See **QUICK_START.md** for detailed API integration guide.

---

## 🎯 Component Highlights

### Contribution Heatmap
- Pure CSS grid implementation
- 52 weeks × 7 days = 364 squares
- 5 contribution levels with GitHub's green colors
- Interactive tooltips on hover
- Responsive horizontal scroll on mobile

### Repository Cards
- Responsive 2-column grid
- Language color indicators
- Fork badges with upstream links
- Smooth border transitions

### Activity Timeline
- Expandable/collapsible sections
- Smooth expand animations
- Repository count aggregation
- Month-based grouping

---

## 🚀 Deployment

### Vercel
```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel
```

### Netlify
```bash
npm run build
# Upload 'dist' folder
```

### GitHub Pages
```bash
npm run build
# Configure to serve from 'dist'
```

---

## 💡 Customization

### Change Profile Data
Edit `src/data/mockProfile.ts`:
```typescript
export const mockProfile = {
  username: 'your-username',
  name: 'Your Name',
  // ... customize fields
};
```

### Add Your Repositories
Edit `src/data/mockRepositories.ts`:
```typescript
export const mockRepositories = [
  {
    name: 'your-repo',
    description: 'Your description',
    language: { name: 'TypeScript', color: '#2b7489' },
    // ... more fields
  }
];
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

**Port already in use?**
```bash
npm run dev -- --port 3000
```

**TypeScript errors?**
```bash
npx tsc --noEmit
```

---

## 📊 Project Stats

- **Components:** 12+
- **TypeScript Interfaces:** 10+
- **CSS Files:** 13+
- **Mock Data Files:** 4
- **Lines of Code:** 2,500+
- **Build Time:** < 5 seconds
- **Dev Server:** < 1 second startup

---

## ✨ What Makes This Special

1. **No UI Libraries** - Everything built from scratch with CSS
2. **Pixel Perfect** - Matches GitHub's design exactly
3. **Type Safe** - Full TypeScript coverage
4. **Well Documented** - 4 comprehensive documentation files
5. **Production Ready** - Clean, maintainable, scalable code
6. **Easy to Extend** - Component-based architecture

---

## 🎓 Learning Resources

This project demonstrates:
- React component composition
- TypeScript type definitions
- CSS Grid and Flexbox layouts
- CSS custom properties (variables)
- Responsive design patterns
- State management with hooks
- Data flow in React apps

---

## 📝 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for learning or as a template!

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Design inspired by [GitHub](https://github.com)
- Built with [React](https://react.dev)
- Powered by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev)

---

## 🎉 Get Started Now!

```bash
npm install && npm run dev
```

Open **http://localhost:5173** and enjoy your GitHub profile clone!

---

**Made with ❤️ using React + TypeScript + Vite**

Commit message:

feat: Add GitHub API integration with secure token management
- Integrated real GitHub REST API for user profile, repos, and orgs
- Added GitHub GraphQL API for contribution heatmap data
- Implemented secure token management using .env file
- Added .env.example template for easy setup
- Updated profile sidebar with dynamic data from API
- Added real contribution heatmap with last 12 months data
- Fixed month labels to start from correct month (last November)
- Added consistent pseudo-random data generation for mock fallback
- Updated header with responsive mobile menu
- Added GitHub achievement badges integration
- Updated README with token setup instructions

README.md, after:

# 🎨 GitHub Profile Overview Clone

A **pixel-perfect replica** of GitHub's profile overview page built with **React + TypeScript + Vite**.

![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-18.2.0-blue?logo=react)
![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-5.2.2-blue?logo=typescript)
![Vite](https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-5.0.8-646CFF?logo=vite)

---

## ✨ Features

✅ **Complete GitHub UI Components**
- Header with navigation and search
- Profile sidebar with bio, stats, achievements
- Popular repositories with 2-column grid
- 365-day contribution heatmap with 5 color levels
- Activity overview with percentage charts
- Expandable activity timeline

✅ **Fully Responsive Design**
- Desktop (1280px+)
- Tablet (768px-1024px)
- Mobile (< 768px)

✅ **Pixel-Perfect Styling**
- GitHub's official dark theme colors
- Authentic hover effects and transitions
- SVG icons matching GitHub's design
- Smooth animations

✅ **Developer-Friendly**
- TypeScript throughout
- Component-based architecture
- Clean, maintainable code
- Comprehensive documentation

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Setup environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your GitHub token

# Start development server
npm run dev

# Open in browser
# Visit: http://localhost:5173
```

### 🔑 GitHub Token Setup

To fetch real contribution data, you need a GitHub Personal Access Token:

1. Go to [GitHub Settings → Tokens](https://github.com/settings/tokens)
2. Click "Generate new token (classic)"
3. Select scopes: `read:user`, `read:org`
4. Copy the generated token
5. Add it to your `.env` file:
   ```
   VITE_GITHUB_TOKEN=your_token_here
   ```

**Note:** The `.env` file is gitignored and your token will remain secure.

---

## 📸 What's Included

### 1. Header Component
- GitHub logo and top navigation
- Search bar with keyboard shortcut
- User menu with avatar
- Profile tabs (Overview, Repositories, Projects, Packages, Stars)

### 2. Profile Sidebar
- Circular avatar
- User name and bio
- Contact information with icons
- Skills as pill badges
- Followers/following stats
- Achievement badges
- Organization logos

### 3. Popular Repositories
- 6 repository cards in responsive grid
- Language indicators with colors
- Visibility badges (Public/Private)
- Fork indicators
- Hover effects

### 4. Contribution Graph
- 365-day heatmap visualization
- 5-level color intensity
- Month and day labels
- Interactive tooltips
- Contribution count display

### 5. Activity Overview
- Commits vs Pull Requests chart
- Color-coded percentage bars
- Organization mentions

### 6. Contribution Activity
- Monthly timeline
- Expandable/collapsible sections
- Repository lists with counts
- Activity type icons

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/
│   ├── Header/                 # Top navigation
│   ├── ProfileSidebar/         # User info sidebar
│   └── MainContent/
│       ├── PopularRepositories/
│       ├── ContributionGraph/
│       ├── ActivityOverview/
│       └── ContributionActivity/
├── data/                       # Mock data
│   ├── mockProfile.ts
│   ├── mockRepositories.ts
│   ├── mockContributions.ts
│   └── mockActivity.ts
├── types/                      # TypeScript definitions
│   ├── profile.types.ts
│   ├── repository.types.ts
│   ├── contribution.types.ts
│   └── activity.types.ts
├── pages/
│   └── ProfilePage.tsx         # Main page component
└── styles/
    └── variables.css           # CSS variables & design system
```

**Total:** 30+ files, 2,500+ lines of code

---

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

| Technology | Purpose |
|------------|---------|
| **React 18** | UI library with hooks |
| **TypeScript** | Type-safe development |
| **Vite** | Fast dev server & build tool |
| **CSS3** | Custom styling with variables |
| **ESLint** | Code quality & linting |

**No external UI libraries** - Pure CSS implementation!

---

## 📱 Responsive Breakpoints

- **Desktop** (1280px+): 2-column layout, full navigation
- **Tablet** (768-1024px): Stacked layout, hamburger menu
- **Mobile** (< 768px): Single column, compact design

---

## 🎨 Design System

All colors and styles use CSS variables from GitHub's official design:

```css
--bg-primary: #0d1117;
--text-primary: #c9d1d9;
--accent-green: #3fb950;
--accent-blue: #58a6ff;
```

See `src/styles/variables.css` for complete design tokens.

---

## 📚 Documentation

| File | Description |
|------|-------------|
| **QUICK_START.md** | Fast setup guide |
| **DESIGN.md** | Original design document |
| **IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md** | Complete feature list |
| **COMPONENT_GUIDE.md** | Component architecture |

---

## 🔧 Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev      # Start development server
npm run build    # Build for production
npm run preview  # Preview production build
npm run lint     # Run ESLint
```

---

## 🌐 API Integration

Currently uses mock data. To integrate with GitHub API:

1. Install SWR or React Query
2. Create API hooks in `src/hooks/`
3. Replace mock imports with API calls

**Example:**
```typescript
// Before
import { mockProfile } from '../data/mockProfile';

// After
const { data: profile } = useProfile(username);
```

See **QUICK_START.md** for detailed API integration guide.

---

## 🎯 Component Highlights

### Contribution Heatmap
- Pure CSS grid implementation
- 52 weeks × 7 days = 364 squares
- 5 contribution levels with GitHub's green colors
- Interactive tooltips on hover
- Responsive horizontal scroll on mobile

### Repository Cards
- Responsive 2-column grid
- Language color indicators
- Fork badges with upstream links
- Smooth border transitions

### Activity Timeline
- Expandable/collapsible sections
- Smooth expand animations
- Repository count aggregation
- Month-based grouping

---

## 🚀 Deployment

### Vercel
```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel
```

### Netlify
```bash
npm run build
# Upload 'dist' folder
```

### GitHub Pages
```bash
npm run build
# Configure to serve from 'dist'
```

---

## 💡 Customization

### Change Profile Data
Edit `src/data/mockProfile.ts`:
```typescript
export const mockProfile = {
  username: 'your-username',
  name: 'Your Name',
  // ... customize fields
};
```

### Add Your Repositories
Edit `src/data/mockRepositories.ts`:
```typescript
export const mockRepositories = [
  {
    name: 'your-repo',
    description: 'Your description',
    language: { name: 'TypeScript', color: '#2b7489' },
    // ... more fields
  }
];
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

**Port already in use?**
```bash
npm run dev -- --port 3000
```

**TypeScript errors?**
```bash
npx tsc --noEmit
```

---

## 📊 Project Stats

- **Components:** 12+
- **TypeScript Interfaces:** 10+
- **CSS Files:** 13+
- **Mock Data Files:** 4
- **Lines of Code:** 2,500+
- **Build Time:** < 5 seconds
- **Dev Server:** < 1 second startup

---

## ✨ What Makes This Special

1. **No UI Libraries** - Everything built from scratch with CSS
2. **Pixel Perfect** - Matches GitHub's design exactly
3. **Type Safe** - Full TypeScript coverage
4. **Well Documented** - 4 comprehensive documentation files
5. **Production Ready** - Clean, maintainable, scalable code
6. **Easy to Extend** - Component-based architecture

---

## 🎓 Learning Resources

This project demonstrates:
- React component composition
- TypeScript type definitions
- CSS Grid and Flexbox layouts
- CSS custom properties (variables)
- Responsive design patterns
- State management with hooks
- Data flow in React apps

---

## 📝 License

MIT License - feel free to use this project for learning or as a template!

---

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Design inspired by [GitHub](https://github.com)
- Built with [React](https://react.dev)
- Powered by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev)

---

## 🎉 Get Started Now!

```bash
npm install && npm run dev
```

Open **http://localhost:5173** and enjoy your GitHub profile clone!

---

**Made with ❤️ using React + TypeScript + Vite**
